Good morning. So sorry, my my voice is a little gravelly. Uh for the youth, let this be a lesson to you. Don't smoke and drink. Actually, I'm not kidding. Don't smoke and drink. Um all right. So, I love action movies. I don't know about you guys, but um while I think Tom Cruise is a little bit wackadoodle, I I do like his Mission Impossible movies. Uh and of course, Mission Impossible is not the only movie with a mission, right? I mean, there's actually a lot of movies out there that have a mission to them. Uh one of my favorite is actually the one uh it's The Mission. I don't know if you guys have seen that one, but that one's definitely worth watching.

Um our church has a vision and our vision is the mission. It's it's the missional church and I'll just going to read this for you. Um ECC strives to be a missional church. We seek to help people come into relationship with Christ, grow and mature their faith through the Holy Spirit, be transformed into his likeness, share God's love with those around us, and be a blessing to others in our community and in the world all to the glory of God and our mission motto is faith to faith, life to life, and generation to generation. And one of Jesus's last words, his last command to his disciples was a call to missions in the Great Commission.

And it says in Matthew 28, "Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you and behold, I'm with you always to the end of the age." And this call, of course, was not only to his disciples at the time, but it's a call for all of us. Every follower of Christ to heed and the question becomes, "What's my mission in the Great Commission? How am I part of the Great Commission? And does that mean I have to become a missionary? Spoiler alert, no. You don't all have to be a missionary.

How can I actively participate in the Great Commission? And our passage from today becomes a model for us to learn how we can all participate in fulfilling the call, the command to the Great Commission. And if you can, please stand with me as we read God's word together. Today's passage comes from Acts chapter 13, verses 1 through 5. Let's read together. Now, in the church at Antioch, there were prophets and teachers, Barnabas, Simeon called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene, Manaen, who had been brought up with Herod the Tetrarch, and Saul. While they were worshipping the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, "Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them." So, after they had fasted and prayed, they placed their hands on them and sent them off.

The two of them went on their way by the Holy Spirit, went down to Seleucia, and sailed from there to Cyprus. When they arrived at Salamis, they proclaimed the word of God in the Jewish synagogues. John was with them as their helper. Let's pray with me for a second. Father God, I do ask that you would sustain my voice during this talk and I ask that you would speak through me, Lord, through your Holy Spirit. And I pray that everyone here would be just ready to receive your message this morning. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. All right. So, here's the outline of my talk.

I'm going to talk about the background of the Great Commission. I'm going to talk about the church as sender and the church as sent. And then I'm going to talk about your mission in the Great Commission. Now, here's here's the background on the Great Commission. Now, we just read the Great Commission from Matthew 28, but Jesus also said at the beginning of Acts, right before his ascension in Acts 1:8, he said this, "But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judaea and Samaria and to the end of the earth." Now, many understand that Acts 1:8 is part of the Great Commission.

So, these two passages together, both Matthew 28 and Acts 1:8, together form the call of the Great Commission. These are Jesus's last words, his last instructions, his last charge to his disciples before he is his ascension and before he left them. Now, we see in Acts how God actually enfolds the Great Commission. And in fact, if you're studying the book of Acts, an easy way to structure the entire book of Acts is by the Great Commission of Acts 1 through 8. And we see this progression in Acts 1 through 8. It says, "From Jerusalem to Judaea and Samaria and then to the ends of the earth." And so, you can see in Acts chapters 1 through 7, a focus on Jerusalem.

And this is where the apostles and the others with them preach throughout Jerusalem predominantly to the Jewish people. And then you can see in Acts 8 through 12 that there's an expansion. Now, we're talking about Judaea and Samaria. And in Acts chapter 8, verse 5, which Pastor Steve Moy preached last week, he talked about Philip going down to the city of Samaria and proclaimed to them Christ. And in chapter 8, pro- um Philip proclaims Christ to Samaria, which is this racially mixed Jewish and Gentile ancestry people, who was then backed up by Peter and John. And then in chapter 10, you see Peter was given this vision from God.

And you maybe you recall this, where he's given this vision to eat all these unclean animals. And right afterwards, he entered and preached to a Roman centurion's house, Cornelius, marking the first intentional preaching to a Gentile audience. And then in chapter 11, we saw the formation of the Antioch church, the first Gentile church, and a major movement into the Gentile uh group of people. And you know, you may recall that this is where they were first called Christians. And so, the rest of Acts, Acts 13 through 26, starting with our passage that we just read in Acts 13, God enfolds the rest of the Great Commission to the ends of the earth.

Our passage shows the first of Paul's three missionary journeys along with Barnabas and some others. And so, we see God's plan enfold, starting in Jerusalem, then to Judaea and Samaria. And then as recorded in Acts, Paul launches the first of his three missions trip throughout the Roman world. So, let me ask the question. Who initiates God's global mission? Was it the church? Was it the prophets in the church? Was it the church leaders? Let's look at what our passage said again. It said, "While they were worshipping the Lord and fasting, they were probably the whole congregation. It wasn't just these people that we read listed.

It was the whole church was praying and fasting. And then we see it says this, "The Holy Spirit said, Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them." So, what's going on here? It's in the setting of worship, fasting, and prayer that the Holy Spirit calls them into action. It's important to note that they were not having a missions meeting. This setting in the Antioch church was not some strategic planning meeting or visioning meeting. It was during worship, fasting, prayer, something that they were already doing, something that they were probably doing regularly, which was putting themselves before the presence of God.

And in so doing, God called upon them. And it says, "While they were worshipping the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said to them, Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for this work that I'm going to call them to do." And so, we can we can see who initiates God's global mission. The Holy Spirit initiates God's global mission. And we can see that the Holy Spirit's hand was actually all over the place in this passage. He was guiding the entire missions trip. It says in verse 4, "The two of them sent on their way by the Holy Spirit." And so, they went down to Seleucia and then from there they sailed to Cyprus.

And then in verse 9, it says, "Then Saul, who was also called Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit." And then it says what he ended up doing. In the other passages, the Holy Spirit plays a very active role in guiding, leading, and directing the unfolding of his global missionary plans. God directed Peter in chap- Acts chapter 10 to look beyond the Jews toward the Gentiles by giving him that vision, "Go ahead and kill and eat these unclean animals." In Acts 16, we see this. During Paul's secondary missionary journey, the Holy Spirit blocked Paul from going into Asia Minor and instead, through this vision, directed him to Macedonia.

There are many passages like this. And the point is, God is always calling. He's always calling us. The question is, are we responding? Are we listening? And are we responding to his call? So first, are we actively listening to what the Holy Spirit is telling us? Do we spend enough time in prayer, in fasting, in worship, in meditation, in the word of God, in all the various avenues to quiet our mind, to quiet our souls, putting down our 5 by 2-in screens that we constantly have in front of us, and listen to what God is calling us to do? And many times, we do hear the Holy Spirit nudging us in a direction, but then do we respond?

Are we ghosting God like we sometimes do when we don't want to respond to messages? And of course, I would never do that to you. I would always respond to your messages, but anyway, I believe that sometimes we do hear God, but we don't want to respond because sometimes his calling is uncomfortable. Sometimes his call is time-consuming. Sometimes his calling means making sacrifices. But that's exactly what God is calling us to do. That's the point of being a living sacrifice. That's the point of the surrendered life. And it's clear from our passage and the entirety of the act of the book of Acts that God has a plan.

We don't need to come up with a plan. We just need to listen to God's call for us. And we need to respond. God has a plan and we need to figure out how we are part of God's plan. By we, I mean we both as a church at large and we as individuals. What can we learn from the church in Antioch? The Holy Spirit spoke to them and as a church, they responded. They actually responded in two ways. They responded as sender and they responded as sent. The church as sender. As sender, they responded to the Holy Spirit how? First, as a church, they gave of their resources. The biblical city of Antioch, from what we understand, um was actually very powerful and very wealthy.

Um it's currently uh the city of Antiochia. Antioch, right? Antiochia, which is in modern-day Turkey. It's a metropolis of Syria. It was a Hellenistic Roman metropolis, a city. In the past, it was the capital of the Seleucid kingdom. The Seleucid kingdom is the Greek kingdom. And then the Greek got conquered by the Romans. And the Romans made it the capital of Syria after conquering the Seleucids in 64 BC. It was a powerful city. On coins, it would call itself the capital of the East. It was the seat of the Roman governor of the region. And it was a free city. Uh the Romans allowed it to govern itself.

It was not ruled or subjugated by the Roman authorities. And it was large enough to boast its own marketplace, its own theater, and its own amphitheater. Um they even had a palace and they had a circus. Josephus, the Roman historian, claims that the city ranked third in size in the Roman Empire, third in size and wealth only after Rome and Alexandria. All right? So, what about the church? What about the church in Antioch? What we know about the city, we can tell that if you recall in Acts chapter 11, this was the first Gentile church formed by these no-named Christians, right? These no-named Jewish Christ followers who were persecuted and scattered and witnessed to the Gentile believers around them.

And then Barnabas was sent first to minister to them. And Barnabas then grabbed Paul to join him in teaching them and growing their faith. The Antioch church were young Christians. It was a young church, but they matured fast. Despite being a Gentile church, they were grafted into God's family. And they responded generously at the end of uh Acts chapter 11 by collecting a relief package for the Jerusalem church sent via Barnabas and Saul. So, what can we gather? The Antioch church, by its location, was powerful and wealthy. Uh by its location in a powerful and wealthy city, the church itself was probably fairly well-off.

And they had God-given financial resources and means to be a sending church. They responded with their resources and they became a sending church. They became a launching pad of not just one, not two, but all three of Paul's great missionary journeys as recorded in the book of Acts. And it all started in as a launching pad from this very church, the uh Church of Antioch. And so their sacrificial giving, and they did respond sacrificially, was not just limited to their money. They responded to God's call by sending their best. They sent Paul and Barnabas. And they sent them off sacrificially, not not holding anything back.

They weren't saying, "No, we got to hang on to these two guys." No, they released them. Now, what about us? What about ECC? Are we giving sacrificially to the Great Commission? Bellevue, Redmond, Seattle, very much like the city of Antioch, is a wealthy area. ECC is a resource-rich church. Are you using your resources for the Great Commission? Are you using your resources for kingdom purposes? Now, let me just share you a little insight with our missions fund here. So, here's our missions budget. How do we do? Well, you can see that we gave about a half a million dollars through our missions fund.

And that supports over 40 long-term missionaries, seven who are from ECC, by the way, spread out over 17 countries, but their actual missions field actually expands beyond expands beyond the 17 countries that they happen to be residing in or calling their home. And we supported mid-term missionaries and six teams of short-term missionaries. And you can see in 2024, um we had a shortfall. And in 2025, we had a surplus surplus, but you know, I got to say even that is misleading. I talked to Albert Eng, who chairs our missions committee, and he informed me that every year, every year, they run a deficit.

They literally run a deficit all the way up until the last couple weeks in December because throughout the year, we're regularly supporting our missionaries. It's not like we just give it to them as a one lump sum. We're supporting them every month, month after month. And by God's providence, by prayer, through the compassion of some of the brothers and sisters in Christ, there's this last-minute ditch last-ditch effort to try to make the missions fund whole by covering the deficit at the end of the year so that we can continue to support our missionaries the following year. Now, not many know, but our missions budget, by design, is not co-mingled with our general fund.

So, there's never a risk of raiding it if our church ever has a shortfall. But that said, unless you're earmarking your donations specifically to the missions fund, you are not personally contributing to it. So, if you feel led by the Holy Spirit to financially support our missionaries, please contribute your additional donations to the missions fund. And it's really easy. Just in the memo section of your donation, specify how much you want to give to the general fund and how much you want to give to the missions fund. But beyond financial giving, we know that the Antioch Church supported their missionaries.

They prayed for them. They fasted for them and they encouraged them. And so I would ask again, how are we supporting our missionaries beyond finances? Prayer. Can you pray for our missionaries? Every week and you just heard Kobe pray. We highlight one of our missionaries that EC supports every week. And you can find out which missionary is highlighted by going to our website eccseattle.org. And if you go under worship and then go to online bulletins, you can see which missionary we're praying for for that week. Please pray for them. Rosalie, for those of you guys who sat in our um Mongolia missions sharing, Rosalie shared last Sunday that your prayers mean so much out there in the missions field.

We we take it for granted when we pray. Pray for safety, pray for this, pray for that. Pray that obstacles would move. You know, anything can happen out there. Anything can happen. There are so many things that can go wrong. There are so many obstacles, hurdles, not to mention spiritual attacks from Satan that can derail months of planning. So much is so out of our control. But so much is in the control of the almighty sovereign God. So your blanket of prayer has a much deeper and more powerful effect than you can ever imagine. How about supporting and encouraging our missionaries? I know some of the small groups have adopted a missionary.

Where you all are in contact with the missionary, you check in on them, you pray for them and you give them encouragement. You know, that's so valuable out there. It's so lonely out And your encouragement means a lot. And when you go out on short-term missions, a vital role that you play is encouraging the local church, the local missions, the long-term missionaries who are doing the outreach work. And I've heard multiple times out there that our mere presence out there when we're with them gives them tremendous encouragement. The church has sent. What can we learn from the attributes of Barnabas and Saul, Paul?

And it says in our verse, "Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them." And how did these two guys, how did they respond to the Holy Spirit's call? Well, we we read of course that they went. And the passage doesn't really say did they struggle or did they wrestle with their decision? But based on the terseness of our passage and what we know about them, I don't think they struggled when they were called to go. What do we know about these two guys? What what led them to the respond the way they did? I just want to spend a couple minutes talking about their attributes and their attitude.

And it's a model for the way we can respond when God is calling us. Barnabas. Barnabas' name, and many of you know this, his name literally means son of encouragement. And he certainly lives up to his name. He was one of the ones he was the one who was sent from the Jerusalem church to check out the Antioch church when it was formed. And they did that to they they sent him not only to examine them but to encourage and support them. And we see in him a willingness to serve others. And Barnabas was the one who recruited and sought out Paul, Saul, for additional help. Now, what do we know about Paul?

Paul had an infamous past as many of you know that he was a persecutor of the church. And in fact, it's it's a little ironic that he was part of the very persecution of Stephen that drove the Jewish believers to Antioch to found this very church that he's now serving in. It's kind of ironic. Now, also when Paul was zapped and blinded by Jesus on the road to Damascus and was sent to Ananias to be healed, Ananias was afraid of him because of his reputation. And Jesus said to Ananias in Acts chapter 9 verse 15, he says this, "Go, for he is a chosen instrument of mine to carry my name before the Gentiles and the kings and the children of Israel." Paul was an instrument of Jesus to proclaim his name.

In chapter 11, Paul for his part was willing to drop whatever he was doing. When he was asked by Barnabas to come help out at the Antioch church, he um Barnabas went out to Tarsus to look for him and when he found him, he just dropped whatever he was doing and went with him to serve the Antioch church. Paul was the consummate teacher and spent his energy preaching and teaching about Jesus. And the both of them so the both of them, they threw themselves into the ministry alongside the brothers and sisters at the Antioch church. And now we see in chapter 13, our passage, we see them submitting to the calling of the Holy Spirit to be sent.

And so I just want to highlight a few of their attributes. They were clearly missional-minded. They were willing to share the gospel to everyone and anyone. And they made themselves available. Their agenda was God's agenda. They showed a willingness to serve wherever God sent them. And I wonder how much are we willing to be available the same way? Or do we get hung up with excuses? They were flexible. They were adaptable. They were willing to drop their agenda, their schedules, whatever they were doing to serve the Lord. And this is a key trait for missionaries. Something that I've heard and learned over again and again in the field.

Because you can make all the plans you want, but you don't know how God's going to use you once you get out there. And they were willing. They were willing to be sent. Barnabas from the Jerusalem church and here again, he was sent from the Antioch church and Paul, he followed the way after Jesus. I don't think Paul had a home. I don't think he's got a place to stay permanently. From the moment of his conversion on the road to Damascus, Paul was always on the move to share the gospel message proclaiming the risen Christ throughout the Roman world up until he was martyred in Rome. And they were both selfless.

And they had a heart of a servant. Paul embodied the term living sacrifice. I mean, he fully lived a surrendered life. We know that multiple times Paul suffered for the gospel. In 1 Corinthians 11, Paul recounts that he was flogged multiple times. He was a beaten with rods. He was pelted with stones. He was shipwrecked, imprisoned multiple times and he was left for dead. Yet amazingly, he remained faithful to Jesus and to his calling to minister to the Gentiles. In his letter to Philip to the Philippians, he wrote, "For me to live is Christ and to die is gain." These are all attributes and attitudes that we should all have in common when we are responding to God's call for us.

But I ask this question, are all called to go? Are all called to mission specifically cross-cultural missions? And here's the last topic. What's my mission in the Great Commission? Your mission is and here let me just show you the Great Commission one more time here. Your mission in the Great Commission is a your your mission is a continuation of the Great Commission. That's your All are called to fulfill the Great Commission. Now, at this point in a talk, some people teach and guilt trip people that all are called to go on cross-cultural missions and and I don't actually think that that's right.

Um and I probably hear a sigh of relief in some people here. I do believe that however that all are called to fulfill the Great Commission. As pre as Sorry. As Rick Warren said, he said, "The Great Commission is not the great suggestion." All right? Part of the Great Commission, of course, is sharing the good news of Jesus locally. In our community, in our schools, in our work, to our friends, to our families. Really, the missions field is right at our door, right next door. Right? And sometimes it's coming into our doors. It's our sphere of influence. The Great Commandment and the Great Commission, those two answer all of life's tough questions.

Why am I here? What's my purpose in life? How should I live my life? The good news is the good news for everyone, everywhere, including here. But we shouldn't stop locally. We do need to participate in God's global missions. The Great Commission is active today and continues to the ends of the earth. The gospel message and God's plan in the Great Commission did not stop at the Book of Acts. God is still at work in the world today. And while there are many areas that are well-trodden and the gospel message is widely available in many places, there are still many areas in the world that are still unreached.

And many of you guys are familiar with the 10/40 window, this 10/40 latitude window. There's still much of the world that has not heard. The green areas on the map are areas where that are considered no longer unreached, where there is a strong Christian presence. The red areas are unreached people groups. And how do they define that? They define it as people groups with less than 2% evangelical Christian populations. And in some of these red areas, there are no known efforts focused on reaching out to them and establishing self-sustaining churches with evangelical faith and practices. So, for more details, you know, if you go I I wrote this down, peoplegroups.org.

Don't do it right now, but write this down, peoplegroups.org. They have a really cool interactive map where you can flip around the globe and pick these different areas and just learn about these different areas. Now, here's the question. How do I know what my calling is? How do I know if I'm being called to go? How do I know if and how I'm being called to send? I really want to take this mystery out of the word calling. It's really a confusing term. This This we we throw it around a lot. What's my calling? Right? Or I'm called to do this. I'm called to It's a confusing term and frankly, it's often misused.

[clears throat] Calling or invitation in the New Testament almost always refers to our calling as believers. It's not a calling to a particular ministry. I'm just going to show you a few verses. 1 Corinthians 1:2 says, "We're called to be saints together with all those who in every place call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ." And in Ephesians 1:18, it says this, "that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you." The hope that he has called you. And then Hebrews 3:1 says, "You who share in a heavenly calling, consider Jesus." So, most of the time when you read throughout the Bible about where it refers to calling, it's refers to a calling of faith.

Essentially, it's a call to become a follower of Christ. And here's how it's kind of misused. Sometimes calling is used improperly to elevate one's spiritual status. It's as if my sense of calling, of divine calling, to my particular profession obligates others to treat me in a special way. That's not the way to use the word calling. Okay. So, what is the right way to look at being called to a particular ministry? How do I know what my calling is for any given ministry? All right. In our passage, what happened? The Holy Spirit directed directly called out Paul and Barnabas for this missions trip.

Now, for almost all all of us, myself included, we will not be called out by name by the Holy Spirit in a prayer meeting. It's very unlikely that you'll be blinded by Jesus and called to serve a particular people while out taking a walk. So, how do we know? How do we know which ministry God is calling you to? How do we know if God is calling you specifically to cross-cultural ministry? Here's where I really want to take the mystery out of what it means to be called. And by the way, this applies to any ministry, not just missions, but yes, definitely missions. You discover God's calling to you in three phases.

Learn, discern, and confirm. Learn, discern, and confirm. So, learn. We first need to take a posture of a student. And for the youth here, this is important for you, but it's also really This is important for all of us here. The posture of a student is, "I'm here to learn. I'm here to explore. I'm here to discover." It's opening yourself to the possibilities and to make yourself available, a willing heart to be used by God, a teachable heart, much like the posture of Paul and Barnabas. I want to learn what God is doing in the world. See what he is already doing in different missions fields. Find out what opportunities are out there.

Remember, God already has a plan. He's already working through people, through organizations, through other churches. His plan is already active and it's unfolding. You're exploring how you can be part of God's plan. And there's many ways to learn. Some of you guys have taken the Perspective class. We just hosted the By the way, just show of hands, how many people have taken the Perspective class before? Okay, some of you guys. You know, Esther and Pat and others organized this at our church last year and it's a great course. I I would encourage you to take it next time it's offered. There are a lot of online options.

My gosh, that doesn't show up very well. Okay, that says joshuaproject.net. Okay, joshuaproject.net.net. There's a lot of online resources here. This This will help out a little bit. There are a lot of online resources to learn about what God is doing in the world. And this is a great resource. Um this website talks about different frontier groups and what different mission organizations are doing. Go to a missions conference. You know, Seattle has a yearly missions fest that our church plays an active part in. The next one coming up is October 16th through 17th. You know, join that. It's a great way to learn and hear what God is doing in missions.

You don't have to go anywhere. Um if you're in college or if you're a junior or senior in high school, um check out Urbana. I went to Urbana many years ago as a college student. It's a great It's great time and a great place to just discover this. Um it happens every 3 years. Um and the next one is December 2028. So, again, if you're a junior or senior in high school, you're going to be hitting right at the time that this is happening. I encourage you to go. All right. Find out how God is already at work throughout the world and see if God may be calling you to join in what he's already doing. And in this learn And in this learning phase, it's all about discovery.

And then next comes this next phase, discern. How do you discern whether God is calling you to go? There's a few things that you can ask. I mean, let's just run through this quickly. Passion. Do I have a passion for this? God will rarely make you do something that you hate. Do I have a passion? Do I have the gifting? Do I have the ability, the skills, the aptitude for doing this? Ask yourself, does this ministry fit the way God made me? Opportunity. Is God presenting an opportunity for me to go? We see many times, many examples in the Bible where sometimes God's God's call is just someone asking them to go.

Barnabas went to Tarsus to find Paul to help in Antioch. In Paul's secondary second missionary journey in Acts 15, Paul chose Silas to go with him. Barnabas chose Mark to go In Acts 16, Paul was in Lystra. He heard that Timothy had this good reputation. So Paul asked Timothy to join him in his missions trip. For both of both Silas and Timothy, Paul's invitation, just that alone, was enough for them to go. Instead of waiting for some miraculous sign, just look for opportunities. And prayer. Prayer. Here Here's a dangerous thing you could do. You can ask God to show you opportunities for you to go.

Super dangerous. You could ask God to open doors for you to go. Do pray that God would open your eyes, open your hearts to his missionary work. The Holy Spirit. Ask the Holy Spirit to guide you and lead you in missions. Ask the Holy Spirit to reveal to you how you can fulfill the Great Commission. And the Holy Spirit I don't have time to go over this, but the Holy Spirit works in so many different ways. In circumstances, in opening and closing doors, speaking and convicting to you in scripture, speaking directly to your soul in ways that only the Holy Spirit can. And yes, sometimes by visions, sometimes by miracles.

And this is also key, the wise counsel of others. One of the ways that the Holy Spirit does work is that he can speak to you through the wise counsel of others. And many times I have asked fellow mature brothers and sisters in Christ what they thought about my next steps. If I should step into a particular ministry, if I have the right skills and the calling to do so. Confirm. For any ministry, just try it out. You know, sometimes we just need to go and do. Whether that's serving in the church, serving in a particular ministry, or missions. You know, for missions, there's a lot of opportunities here.

Short-term missions, medium-term missions. It's a great opportunity to explore is God calling me to do missions work. And in doing the work, is the Holy Spirit confirming your choice? Are others affirming your calling and recognizing your role, your gifting? Recently, Steve Pastor Steve Morris, Steve Steve was just ordained. And as he shared last week, it was a long journey that got before he got there. Um as part of his ordination, a council of elders and pastors met to confirm his calling as a pastor. But here's the interesting thing about it. It's not like he wasn't already doing the work. He was.

He was already doing the work of a pastor, a shepherd, an overseer. Part of his ordination was just a confirmation that he is called to serve as a pastor. And you don't need to be ordained to do the work God is calling you to do. Try doing the ministry that you think God is leading you to do. See if that lines up with your gifting and if you have an aptitude for it. See if you really do have a passion for that and see if others recognize and affirm your calling to do it. And see if the Holy Spirit, in all the ways that he works, confirms your ministry. Let me conclude with this. Pastor Rick said this, "A great commitment to the Great Commandment and the Great Commission will make you a great Christian." I shared that with a youth last last Sunday.

The Great Commandment, "Love your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind." And the Great Commission, "Go and make disciples of all nations." A commitment to both will make you a great Christian. We're all called to fulfill the Great Commission. We need to discover how God will use us, our God-given gifts, our resources, our ability to share the good news of Jesus to those around us and beyond us. Is God Is God calling you to send? Is God calling you to go? Let's pray. Father God, you have a plan. You are working out your Great Commission even now as we speak.